---
layout: post
title: AZ-102 and a change of direction
---

I haven't had a chance to post over the last few weeks as I've been preparing for AZ-102 -an exam I'd decided to skip in favour of the new AZ-200 & AZ-201 Developer track.

Why?

I'm not a fan of obtaining certs for their own sake - I think there's a danger that focusing on certification can lead you down a path of expending study effort in areas that aren't necessarily *that* beneficial.  That's certainly been the case for me in the past, where I look back and question just how useful it was to upgrade particular certs, when I wasn't heavily innested in those technologies day-to-day.

Obviously certifications do play a part.  They are sometimes useful for passing the "agency filter" and making sure the CV gets under the nose of the right person.  MSPs in particular need to have pre-determined numbers of certified staff on their books to qualify for the various tiers of Partner status with Microsoft and other vendors.

I don't think any of that really makes certification worthwhile though.

For me, the value I get out of certification is that it forces me to focus my study towards a set goal within a fixed timescale.  No matter the exam, some of the objectives are always topics that I've never encountered on the job.  That's a really useful thing - to be forced to broaden your knowledge of a given technology by learning about some of the features you may not otherwise encounter.

After making the decision to take the new developer-focused Azure exams, rather than upgrade the existing MCSE, I spent a bit of time reading the objectives for the MCSE upgrade exam.  It's less than a year since I sat 70-533 and yet there are a surprising amount of new topics covered on the new exams.  

Partly, this is because they are way more tightly focused; the criticism of the previous Azure exams was they had become ridiculously broad in scope.  It's also due to the fact that the change of pace in Azure remains rapid - many of the new objectives relate to features that are in public preview or have just been released.

So, it seems to make sense to do the upgrade exam after all.  There's enough "new stuff" in there to make it a worthwile exercise in learning relevant things.  Aside from the new additions, some of the core features are covered in greater depth due to the tighter focus of the exam around Azure "admin".

The plan is still to obtain the Azure Developer exams, but I'm seeing plenty of value in upgrading the admin track first.